[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
roger johnson and nina warhorse
hello good morning our headlines today
boris johnson promises big changes
following his brexit
trade deal with a pledge to focus on
spreading opportunity
and delivering for those left behind
canada becomes the latest country to
report cases of the new and more
infectious variants of coronavirus
storm bella brings gusts of more than 80
miles an hour and amber weather warnings
for parts of wales and southern england
and the winds from stormbeller peaking
right about now
those damaging winds combined with some
very wet weather so a risk still or
concerns of further flooding
and some treacherous conditions on the
roads further north we're back into
wintry weather with ice
and snow a risk today
good morning history for bryony frost
she becomes the first female jockey to
win the king george vi
chase storming to victory on the 20-1
shot froden
at kempton
[Music]
it's sunday the 27th of december good
morning our top story boris johnson
has promised that big changes for the uk
will be on the way after securing the
post-brexit
trade deal on christmas eve in an
interview with the sunday telegraph the
prime minister says his focus will be on
leveling up the country and spreading
opportunity
but there's been criticism from the
fishing industry as our political
correspondent ian watson explains
the prime minister has insisted he'd
been willing to go for no deal
when negotiations were going in the
wrong direction but he insisted the deal
he achieved would withstand the most
ruthless scrutiny by conservative
brexiteers
glad tidings of great joy because this
is a deal a full agreement with the eu
runs to more than 1200
pages and has now been published but
it's attracting some criticism
the national federation of fishermen's
organizations has described a reduction
in the value of the eu's catch
as poultry and has said there's a
profound sense of disillusionment
and betrayal in fishing communities
changes to fishing quarters
will be phased in over five and a half
years with the value of the eu's catch
falling by 25 percent
senior uk negotiators admitted did
compromised
somewhat over fishing but said the eu
had done so too
after five and a half years the uk would
be free to reduce
eu access to its coastal waters further
but could face retaliatory action
government sources said any measures
taken by the eu
would have to be proportionate and would
be limited to the fishing industry
in watson bbc news
weather warnings are in place for large
parts of the uk as storm bella continues
to bring heavy rain and high winds
gusts of more than 80 miles an hour have
been recorded there's an amber weather
warning for wind in place for much of
the south coast of england
and parts of wales as emily junior
reports
river's gone back down as you can see
returning to survey the damage
flooding falls to debbie redford's
father from his house on christmas eve
now the water's gone down and the
cleaning begins
and it went over the sockets so they've
all got to be dried out
in bedfordshire river levels rose on the
great ooze and
police told 1300 households to leave
their properties
the immediate threat to life outweighed
the need to follow tier 4 coronavirus
restrictions
people were allowed to seek shelter in
friends homes or emergency support
centers
we've ended up doing kind of what we've
done in the past quite a few years uh
anyway so oddly enough it ended up being
kind of a more sociable christmas than
um
than we were planning on overnight storm
bella has delivered more disruption
high winds have brought down trees in
wales devon and sussex
making driving conditions treacherous
the met office has a number of weather
warnings in place
including an amber alert for wind across
southern and western england
and coastal wales emily yunia bbc news
the coronavirus vaccine will be given to
millions of people across europe today
as countries including
france spain and italy begin the rollout
of their vaccination programmes
meanwhile they've been confirmed cases
of the more contagious variant of kovid
19 in several european countries
as well as canada and japan tim allman
reports
time is of the essence in the fight
against covid19
here at this nursing home in northeast
germany the vaccination program has
begun
a day early health workers said they
weren't prepared to wait for the
european union's coordinated rollout
which was due to begin on sunday clearly
for governments all around the world it
could be a real game changer
but as the vaccine spreads in vans and
lorries across the continent
so too it seems does the new variant
strain of the virus
it was first identified here in the uk
nearly two weeks ago
leading to tough new restrictions for
millions of people
despite some countries effectively
closing their borders to travelers from
britain
the virus has been found in parts of
western europe
and further afield japan and now canada
have confirmed positive tests
the new form of the virus is potentially
far more infectious
but at this stage it doesn't seem to be
any more severe or crucially any more
deadly the big question is will the new
vaccines be effective in combating it
it happens every year for example with
influenza virus we change the vaccine
for influenza pretty much every year
because of the evolution of influenza
from year to year
the concern would be a similar type
thing might happen then
with this corona virus mass vaccinations
are due to begin
across europe today and there are
reports that britain's medicine
regulator could approve the so-called
oxford vaccine within a matter of days
a little hope and optimism as the new
year approaches
tim allman bbc news let's check in
on the situation in australia our
reporter phil mercer is in sydney phil
some new cases confirmed overnight there
the sydney cluster of kovid 19 has now
grown to 122 and that number
may not seem much compared to other
countries but there
are about 180 active coronavirus cases
across the entire country
so this cluster of cases in sydney is
causing a great deal of concern
for the authorities it is focused in the
northern beaches district
of sydney now some of those coastal
suburbs have gone back into lockdown
there was an amnesty for a couple of
days over christmas but those regions
are now back under
those restrictions other parts of the
northern beaches have stay-at-home
orders
imposed on residents too there are
restrictions on other parts of sydney
too
so australia had been hoping for a covey
safe christmas but this outbreak in
sydney is
causing the authorities a great deal of
concern
and these restrictions in sydney will
last until wednesday
and then they will be reassessed and so
in total since the pandemic began
australia has recorded 28 000 covid 19
cases
and more than 900 people have died phil
thank you
phil mercer there in sydney with the
latest
the health board which runs wales's
largest hospital has
issued an urgent appeal for help to deal
with a high number of coronavirus
patients
the cardiff and vail university health
board
tweeted that it was urgently looking for
medical students
for its critical care department last
week public health whales warned of an
alarming rise in coronavirus cases rates
across the country
authorities in the u.s are investigating
whether a campervan explosion in the
city of nashville on christmas day was a
suicide bombing
three people were injured in the blast
and dna tests are being carried out
after human remains were found near the
site of the blast
no motive has been established and
nobody has claimed responsibility
george blake the former mi6 officer and
one of the cold wars most
infamous double agents has died at the
age of 98.
as a soviet spy he betrayed hundreds of
western agents in eastern europe and the
russian president vladimir putin says
blake was an outstanding professional
on moscow correspondent steve rosenberg
reports
he had a russian home a russian wife
even a russian
name gyorgy ivanovic but george blake
was a british intelligence officer who
became
one of the most notorious double agents
of the cold war
he spied for the soviets for nearly a
decade
followed by mr george blake blake had
spent three years in captivity
in north korea by the time he returned
to britain in 1953
he was a committed communist posted to
berlin by mi6
he became a kgb mole he would take the
train to the soviet sector
hand over data on western intelligence
operations
and western agents and then drink
champagne
with his kgb handler i don't know but
maybe 500
600 agents yes you betrayed
500 600 agents maybe blake convinced
himself that what he was doing was
morally right
i looked upon it like a sort of
voluntary job
you know like people uh he was something
like that
yes he was eventually jailed in britain
for 42 years
but in 1966 he escaped from prison
and fled to moscow where he was hailed
as a hero
there he was locked up as a top security
prisoner
in wormwood scrubs and he got over the
wall
and was spirited away under a bed in a
camper van to east berlin it was
astonishing
in 2012 he told a russian tv channel
that he hadn't changed sides because of
blackmail or torture
he'd offered his services voluntarily
in a message of condolence president
putin described
george blake as courageous an
outstanding professional
adding that his memory would remain in
russian hearts
forever russia gave him medals and much
praise but to britain he is the cold war
traitor
who escaped justice steve rosenberg bbc
news
moscow what
a fascinating life he led truth is
stranger than fiction isn't it
let's take a look at what's happening in
today's uh papers we'll start with the
sunday times front page
now it says that the covid vaccine
developed by oxford university
and astrazeneca is set to win approval
within
days the paper says that senior
government officials expect the
medicines regulator to give the green
light before thursday
uh onto the mail on sunday it hopes that
the
job will soon be approved and it could
mean that the uk
is free of tight coverage restrictions
by the end of february that's
according to the mail on sunday's front
page this morning but the sunday mirror
leads on warnings from
mp's doctors and care chief that the
vaccine rollout could turn into a fiasco
with hundreds of gp
surgeries and scores of hospitals
reportedly
still waiting for pfizer jabs and online
the bbc news website has the
latest updates on storm bella as the
storm brings heavy rain and high winds
to parts of the uk particularly in the
south and the east
and inside the papers this morning
they've waited until
uh the sunday spreads to show details of
the last moments where the prime
minister was closing the deal and what i
love about it is you can sense this one
is in the
sunday times you can sense the tension
there
well boris johnson looking quite relaxed
but the rest of the team
had in their hands i mean this was the
moment on monday night
when it really could have gone either
way on tuesday night sorry
and then this one even more in sight
is
chocolates and soft drinks are available
yes they are and heineken alcohol free
lager i just love this behind the scenes
sense that you get
from these photographs because it could
have gone either way at that point by
all reports
um obviously in in the lead up to
christmas uh there was a lot of talk
about
all the the closing of the borders
because of the new variants of
coronavirus
and the mail on sunday's got a really
good comparison it's quite quite
big but if i can hold it up you should
be able to see it it's got a picture of
uh
this is manston airfield in kent with
where the lorries were parked up
this was uh christmas day and the walnut
the photograph over here
is yesterday so all but one or two of
them which are
still there had gone so very swift very
efficient the army involved as well of
course to uh
to get all those trucks cleared as the
border reopened it was incredible how
quickly it built up
but then even more incredible yeah the
backlog was unlocked
um i've got a couple of other insights
this is yeah i think this is in the mail
on sunday again by the looks of the
type um the queen apparently has asked
for a tarmac path because the core
the gravel on one of the paths at
buckingham palace is uh
hurting at the corgis paws so path is
going to be dug up i'm going to be tom
october this is a picture of the queen
from 1969 with one of her
beloved corgis of course she's the breed
of dog for many a long year
imagine if you're a tarmacking firm and
got that call what's the address please
buckingham palace um lots of smaller
turn around and knock on the door and
ask if she wants a tarmac
yeah a door-to-door sales person and
party like it's 20 21
from the comfort of your uh front room
what are you doing on new year's eve
roger
nothing exactly
exactly so um this article in the
observer talking about
different ideas here um beatboxer
sk has decided to get in touch
with nasa
for the world's first charity
rave-a-thon rave to the moon
launched by a retar retired astronaut so
basically
revellers rovers are asked to all get
together dance at the same time
download an app and then cover enough
steps while dancing to cover the
distance to the moon and back so you can
feel like you're at a party it was right
up your street
yeah maybe it wasn't up dead early the
next day
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc
news